README.md, before:

# Image2awebp

A script to turn a single image into an animated .webp (or .gif) file by splitting the image into four frames.

Frames are in the order:

1. Top Left

2. Bottom Left

3. Bottom Right

4. Top Right

---

## Supported File Types

The program has been tested with:

- .png

- .jpg

- .tiff

The program uses the [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installation.html) `Image.load()` method, so other image filetypes may be supported.

---

## Usage

```txt
Image2awebp.py [-h] -I INPUT [-O OUTPUT] [-D DURATION] [-C CROP] [-G] [-B]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

  -I INPUT, --input INPUT
                        Set input filepath. Supports .png, .jpg/.jpeg, and .tiff
  
  -O OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        Set output directory (Default = .\Output)
  
  -D DURATION, --duration DURATION
                        Set duration of frames in milliseconds (Default = 200ms)
  
  -C CROP, --crop CROP  Set crop factor of each frame (Default = 100 = no crop)

  -G, --gif             Save the animation as a .gif file instead of .webp

  -B, --boomerang       Use 'boomerang' style looping
```

### Examples

- Provide an input image and leave all the other settings as the default

```sh
python Image2awebp.py --input "inputImage.jpg"
```

- Provide an input image, set the duration of each frame to 100ms and set the crop factor to 90%

```sh
python Image2awebp.py -I "inputImage.jpg" -D 100 -C 90
```

- Provide an input image, set the output directory, and leave the other settings as default

```sh
python Image2awebp.py -I "inputImage.png" --output "C:\Users\outputDir"
```

- Provide an input image, set the duration of each frame to 250ms, and save the animation as a .gif

```sh
python Image2awebp.py -I "InputImage.tiff" -G --duration 250
```

---

## Dependencies

- Requires [Python](https://www.python.org/) version 3.5.3 or higher

- Requires [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installation.html) version 8.2.0 or higher

---

## TODO

- Perhaps some AI image aligning

Commit message:

Implement the use of vidstab
Update README
Update .gitignore

README.md, after:

# Image2awebp

A script to turn a single image into an animated .webp (or .gif) file by splitting the image into four frames and aligning the frames automatically.

Frames are in the order:

1. Top Left

2. Bottom Left

3. Bottom Right

4. Top Right

---

## Supported File Types

The program has been tested with:

- .png

- .jpg

- .tiff

The program uses the [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installation.html) `Image.load()` method, so other image filetypes may be supported.

---

## Usage

```txt
Image2awebp.py [-h] -I INPUT [-O OUTPUT] [-D DURATION] [-C CROP] [-S] [-R BORDER] [-G] [-B]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

  -I INPUT, --input INPUT
                        Set input filepath. Supports .png, .jpg/.jpeg, and .tiff

  -O OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        Set output directory (Default = .\Output)

  -D DURATION, --duration DURATION
                        Set duration of frames in milliseconds (Default = 200ms)

  -C CROP, --crop CROP  Set the crop factor of each frame (Applied before stabilisation) (Default = 100 = no crop)

  -S, --stabilise       Use AI to stabilise the frames

  -R BORDER, --border BORDER
                        Size of border in output. Positive values pad, negative values crop (Default = 0)

  -G, --gif             Save the animation as a .gif file instead of .webp

  -B, --boomerang       Use 'boomerang' style looping
```

### Examples

- Provide an input image and leave all the other settings as the default

```sh
python Image2awebp.py --input "inputImage.jpg"
```

- Provide an input image, set the duration of each frame to 100ms and set the crop factor to 90%

```sh
python Image2awebp.py -I "inputImage.jpg" -D 100 -C 90
```

- Provide an input image, set the output directory, and leave the other settings as default

```sh
python Image2awebp.py -I "inputImage.png" --output "C:\Users\outputDir"
```

- Provide an input image, set the duration of each frame to 250ms, and save the animation as a .gif

```sh
python Image2awebp.py -I "InputImage.tiff" -G --duration 250
```

---

## Dependencies

- Requires [Python](https://www.python.org/) version 3.5.3 or higher

- Requires [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installation.html) version 8.2.0 or higher

  ```sh
  pip install Pillow
  ```

- Requires [VidStab](https://github.com/AdamSpannbauer/python_video_stab) version 1.7.4 or higher

  - Requires [OpenCV](https://pypi.org/project/opencv-contrib-python/) version 4.5.5.62 or higher

    ```sh
    pip install vidstab[cv2]
    ```

## TODO

- Image aligning currently does not function as intended
